[ Silence ]
[ Music ]
>> Mike Adams: Welcome
to Secrets
to Health with Mike and Ed.
I'm Mike Adams of Natural News.
>> Dr. Edward Group:
And I'm Dr. Group
with Global Healing Center.
Today we have a great
show for you.
It is called Fake Foods exposed.
And I am standing here with
one of the leading experts
in food investigators,
Mike Adams,
who has a forensic food lab.
Mike, tell us what you found
with all these fake
ingredients in food?
>> Mike: Well, today we're going
to focus on a number of things
but blueberries, in particular,
because if you go out
and you buy foods, let's say
you're buying blueberry bagels
or a blueberry waffle or
even blueberry muffins
or breakfast cereals
or anything,
you think that you're
buying real blueberries
and getting the real nutrition
from those blueberries
in those foods; but
it turns out, Ed --
and this is what we're going
to show people today --
most of those blueberries,
not all of them,
but most of them
are, in fact, fake.
They're not real.
They're made with artificial
food colors, propylene glycol.
We'll go through the
other ingredients
that they're actually made from.
Now, Ed, I've got to ask
you why does that matter?
>> Dr. Group: Why
does that matter?
Because food is toxic
when it's processed
and when you use artificial
colors, artificial sweeteners,
high fructose corn syrup.
All that does, Mike, is just
add more toxins to the body,
causes immune response, causes
aggressiveness in children,
causes ADD hyperactivity,
and the fact
that our body doesn't know how
to break it down [inaudible].
>> Mike: Yeah.
I guess we weren't made
to eat petrol chemicals
disguised as food coloring.
But to get started, let's first
show people the difference
between fake blueberries and
real blueberries so everybody is
on the same page about what the
difference really looks like.
And to do that, we're going
to show you some
photos and some videos.
Check this out.
These photos are from
the Natural News Forensic
Food Laboratory.
I took these myself with
our digital microscope.
The first photo here shows you
what a real blueberry looks
like at over 100
times magnification.
And if you look closely, you
can see tiny seeds inside the
blueberry that look like
little tiny almonds,
but they're actually
blueberry seeds,
kind of like microscopic
strawberry seeds.
Real blueberries
have real seeds.
But then if you look at some
foods, like this waffle,
look as we dissect this
waffle under the microscope
and you'll see that, as we
tear open the dough to look
for the blueberry, we find
there is no blueberry.
It only contains purple dough.
>> Dr. Group: So that was
pretty shocking, Mike.
I'll tell you, I mean,
you're doing some great work,
and you're showing people why
they need to pay attention
to reading the labels.
I mean, if you look at labels of
the standard foods these days,
you're just going to
see a slew of chemicals.
And really what we want to do
is show people how these things
are made.
I mean, when you can
actually see the fact,
that you're putting
these toxic chemicals
and mixing these toxic
chemicals in to toxic doughs
and everything else, hopefully,
Mike, people will wake up
and they won't feed these
things to their kids
or they won't feed themselves
anymore with this kind of stuff.
>> Mike: Well, exactly.
I want to show you right here.
On camera, we have the props.
We have the chemicals
to actually make our own
fake blueberry dough.
So here's what we're
going to do.
We've got some dough
here in a pan.
We've got real blueberries
on one side.
We got some fake blueberry
cereal on the other,
just to show you the difference.
We're going to use the dyes,
the propylene glycol,
which is antifreeze.
It's actually used to
winterize RV's and trucks.
We've got some of that here.
And we're going to use some --
we can throw some
sugar in it if we want.
We're going to make our own
artificial blueberry dough,
which is just like what
you buy in the store.
So let's get right to that, Ed.
>> Dr. Group: Well, the first
thing, Mike, is we're going
to actually mix the dyes.
And for people who don't know,
there's actually
eight dyes out there.
These are artificial dyes.
There's two reds.
There's two blues.
There's two yellows.
There's a green and
there's also an orange.
Now all these dyes have been
tested to be toxic to the body.
And red forty, Mike, is
actually extremely toxic.
These dyes are carcinogens; yet
the FDA still allows these dyes
in food, even though a
lot of these companies
that use these artificial
dyes in the UK
and other countries
have the same product
but use natural dyes
outside of the United States.
Now people might think oh,
well, these dyes are harmless
because they're approved by
the FDA; but I can tell you,
my kid has been raised
on an organic diet,
and he went to a birthday
party one time and came back
with extreme hyperactivity.
>> Mike: Just from the dyes?
>> Dr. Group: Just
from the dyes.
And it is a major problem.
>> Mike: That's because they're
derived from petrol chemicals.
Now watch as I put this food
dye in this beaker of water,
as we're going to start
making our -- whoa.
There's a lot of dye.
We're going to make our
artificial blueberry.
We stir it around a little bit
and we have, as you can see
against the white here, you
can see [multiple speakers].
>> Dr. Group: Let's stir
that around a little bit.
Whoa. What is that, man?
It looks like a vaccine shot.
What are you doing?
>> Mike: Oh, no.
That's --
>> Dr. Group: Okay.
Something else has stopped.
>> Mike: You'll start to notice
that the color of this starts
to look like this cereal,
which is Frosted Mini Wheats,
blueberry flavor, that
has no blueberries in it,
but the colors started
to look the same.
I think we need some green, Ed.
>> Dr. Group: Yes, we do.
>> Mike: Let's get
some green in here.
>> Dr. Group: So these fake
blueberries usually contain blue
dye, green dye and
also red number forty.
>> Mike: There we go
[multiple speakers].
>> Dr. Group: There
goes the green.
>> Mike: Give me that syringe.
HPV vaccine is coming up next.
>> Dr. Group: The reason why
these food companies use these
dyes is because it's a lot
less expensive to use chemicals
than it is to use
actual real foods, Mike.
>> Mike: And exactly.
And the other thing that's
really important to know
about this is in a real
blueberry, that you see here,
this blueberry has
vital nutrients,
which are natural medicines.
They include things like
resveratrol, flavonols,
fikosianin and other
natural chemicals
that the plant actually produces
that function as medicines
in your body to support
your cardiovascular system,
your nervous system,
eyesight, many other things.
But this artificial
thing over here has none
of those natural medicinal
nutrients or chemicals,
depending on how you look at it.
This is artificial color
just to fool your eyes
and make you think you're
buying real blueberries when,
in fact, they're fake.
>> Dr. Group: Exactly.
I mean, the human body
and the metabolism
and the biochemistry
is designed to work off
of natural things in nature.
I mean, we never had all these
artificial chemicals and toxins
until less than 100 years ago.
Now we've completely gotten
away from natural foods and gone
to man-made foods
because it's cheaper
and also the pharmaceutical
companies are making more money
because more people are sick.
>> Mike: Yeah, that's
another point.
We got to talk about
that in more detail.
But first, let's
do our demo here.
I got a little blue
on you there, Ed.
Don't worry.
Somebody on the sidewalk will
be happy to lick that off
of your glove later, because
this is the stuff they
actually eat.
>> Dr. Group: I wouldn't
want to poison them.
>> Mike: So what we're going to
do now is we're actually going
to inject our bread with some
artificial blueberry color, and,
as you can see, we're making
little blueberry pieces.
Let me hold this up so that
everybody can see very clearly.
>> Dr. Group: Here,
I'll hold that for you.
>> Mike: Check it out.
This looks kind of like this,
just the color is a
little bit different.
They look like little
blueberries.
And if we added some artificial
fragrance, some flavors
that you can smell, it would
even smell like blueberries.
Now we're not done though.
We got to put the antifreeze in.
>> Dr. Group: Yes.
And talking about artificial
flavors, by the way,
the reason they add artificial
flavors is because the food is
so processed and man-made
that it's not even food,
that it doesn't even
have a taste to it.
So they have to add artificial
flavors and natural color,
I mean, natural flavors,
which, by the way,
natural flavors are
even disguised.
>> Mike: Yeah.
Right.
>> Dr. Group: And
artificial flavors
and natural flavors
actually contain MSG
and other toxic chemicals.
>> Mike: All right.
So --
>> Dr. Group: This is
propylene glycol right here.
Now this is --
>> Mike: Yep.
>> Dr. Group: --
antifreeze, like Mike said,
and this is actually not
only added to food but is
in many skin care products.
And if someone has a
rash or skin problems,
most likely they're
consuming propylene glycol.
It's highly allergic as well.
>> Mike: Okay.
This stuff right here, as
I said, this is antifreeze,
and it's on the ingredient's
label.
In fact, just to let you know,
here, I'm reading a label
of a blueberry muffin mix.
Do you see propylene
glycol right there, Ed?
>> Dr. Group: Yes, I do see --
>> Mike: Yep.
>> Dr. Group: --
propylene glycol.
>> Mike: There it is.
>> Dr. Group: It's amazing
that they can actually put
these things on the label --
>> Mike: Yep.
>> Dr. Group: -- and
people actually --
>> Mike: People eat it.
>> Dr. Group: -- eat it.
>> Mike: Yep.
I know.
>> Dr. Group: Hey, and we could
microwave this bread later
and actually have
this for lunch.
What do you say?
>> Mike: Well, then it will --
>> Dr. Group: That
sounds like fun.
>> Mike: -- be radiated and
it will be extremely toxic.
>> Dr. Group: Who
knows what happens.
See, Mike brought
up a good point.
You take all these chemicals,
and a lot of people put
their food in a microwave.
Well, what happens to all
these chemicals, Mike,
once you microwave them?
I mean --
>> Mike: They get modified
by the microwave --
>> Dr. Group: Exactly.
>> Mike: -- energy.
>> Exactly.
>> Mike: Making them even more
dangerous to human health.
But look, let's go through --
this is our example
of how to make fake --
now, those of you watching,
you wouldn't eat this, right,
knowing what we just did.
And yet when you go to the store
and you buy things like this,
Kellogg's Frosted Mini
Wheats, blueberry cereal.
>> Mike: This has no
blueberries in it folks.
This is purple sugar and
purple dough essentially.
There are no blueberries
in this product.
So we don't want that
anywhere around here.
Check this out.
Captain Crunch, Oops,
All Berries cereal,
which contains no berries.
It says Oops.
>> Dr. Group: But it's got a
lot of colorful things there
that are going to
catch the kids' eyes.
And --
>> Mike: Yeah.
>> Dr. Group: -- mom and dad
will at least buy that for them.
>> Mike: Notice that the
box is actually designed
to mimic the shape and the color
of really nutritious berries.
This is deception.
This is like stage magic for
parents to make them think
that oh, they're some --
they're buying something
that could be healthy.
It fools. It tricks the eyes.
It's basic human psychology
to look for bright colors,
because colors are
medicines and foods.
So when parents see
this box, they think oh,
it must be good for you.
And they couldn't sell it if
it were bad for you; right?
The FDA wouldn't allow them
to do that, would they?
>> Dr. Group: Well,
we would hope not.
Unfortunately the FDA allows
pretty much every type
of food toxin.
And you know, I think really
what the thing that we need
to do is start training our
children to read labels.
I mean, my kids -- I
have a seven-year-old
and a five-year-old --
they actually know
how to read a label.
>> Mike: Really?
>> Dr. Group: They really
know how to read a label, yes,
and they understand it.
>> Mike: Well, first
we have to teach --
>> Dr. Group: Can you imagine?
>> Mike: -- kids to read.
That's another show.
>> Dr. Group: Can you imagine
though if kids knew how
to read labels and knew the
toxic compounds in there?
There should be a class in
school about how to read.
I mean, think about food.
I mean, food takes care of your
energy levels in your body.
It takes care of your --
>> Mike: Your healing,
your immune function.
>> Dr. Group: Immune function.
>> Mike: Brain function,
learning.
>> Dr. Group: Your skin growth.
>> Mike: Everything.
>> Dr. Group: Everything.
>> Mike: Yeah.
>> Dr. Group: Why
wouldn't we be focusing
on teaching our children in
schools how to learn about food
and ingredients and
what food does --
>> Mike: I know.
>> Dr. Group: -- to the body?
>> Mike: I know,
but this is the kind
of stuff that's being
promoted to kids.
Check this out.
Total cereal.
Blueberry Pomegranate
is the name,
the Total Blueberry Pomegranate.
This is positioned
as a healthy cereal.
Ed, do you think it
has any blueberries
or any pomegranates
in the cereal?
>> Dr. Group: Well,
they must, Mike,
because it says right here,
100 percent nutrition.
>> Mike, Yeah, well,
100 percent.
>> Dr. Group: So that means
that it must just have
everything perfect
in there for you.
And Mike, it even says
100 percent daily value
of 12 vitamins and minerals.
>> Mike: It does.
>> Dr. Group: I wonder if those
are coming from the blueberries?
>> Mike: Guess what?
If you look at the ingredients,
labels, there are no blueberries
and there are no
pomegranates in this cereal.
General Mills is selling you
blueberries and pomegranates
in your mind, like a
little hypnosis thing.
>> Dr. Group: I'm shocked.
>> Mike: Yeah.
>> Dr. Group: They're
supposed --
>> Mike: That's amazing.
>> Dr. Group: Imagine
you're eating blueberries
and pomegranates.
It's like, I don't know,
they're selling you your
own imagination.
>> Mike: I wonder if
your body believes it?
>> Dr. Group: I don't know.
That would be a whole
another show right there.
>> Mike: But let's
show some products
that actually do
contain real blueberries,
because some companies are
now conscientious enough
about this issue
to use real ones.
So check this out.
You may be surprised,
but Kellogg's Pop Tarts actually
uses real blueberries baked
with real fruit, about
10 percent real fruit.
The other 90 percent, we're
not sure what that stuff is.
It probably involves
some of this.
But it leaves us
10 percent real,
and there are real
blueberries in it.
What do you think
about Pop Tarts?
Do you want to have
some of these for lunch?
>> Dr. Group: You know,
if I ate these up,
I probably cause a serious
reaction in my body.
But again, you know, all
this stuff we're talking
about here says naturally
and artificially flavored.
If anything says naturally
and artificially
flavored, put it down.
I mean, Mike, there's
so many different things
on this ingredient
list; enriched flour.
Do you know --
>> Mike: Yeah.
>> Dr. Group: -- why they
have to enrich things?
[multiple speakers] because
there's nothing in it
to begin with; so they have
to add synthetic
vitamins to these things.
>> Mike: That's right.
>> Dr. Group: And
do you know what?
These synthetic vitamins
actually do you more harm
than good.
>> Mike: Well, let's
continue with the list.
Check this out.
This is a blueberry
muffin mix that I bought,
believe it or not, at Walmart.
I really went to Walmart for
the show, and I shopped around
and bought all this stuff.
And I saw other people around me
with their carts full
of this kind of food.
Well, there are no blueberries
in this blueberry muffin mix,
even though it says
just add milk.
Another substance we might want
to talk about on another show.
But how do you have a blueberry
mix with no blueberries?
Well, check this out.
Here's the Walmart brand
of blueberry waffles,
called Great Value
Blueberry Waffles.
I actually dissected
these waffles
under the microscope,
as you saw earlier.
I could not find any blueberries
whatsoever in this product,
even though it claims some
kind of blueberry puree
or blueberry juice in the
actual ingredient's list,
along with blue number two,
red number forty, sugar,
soybean derivatives and
many other type, or canola,
many other types of ingredients,
that we would want
to avoid anyway.
>> Dr. Group: You know,
does that have propylene
glycol in it, by the way?
>> Mike: I don't know if it's
got propylene glycol in it,
but it's definitely
not real blueberries.
>> Dr. Group: You know, I had
to ask why they put propylene
glycol in these things,
and the reason they put
propylene glycol in there --
it's a petroleum-based
product, by the way --
is that it keeps
everything moist.
And because you're using
all these chemicals
and preservatives and
compounds in there,
these things can -- look.
Look how hard this waffle
is that just sat out.
>> Mike: Yeah.
>> Dr. Group: So probably it
doesn't have propylene glycol
in it.
But these are the kinds of
things that you want to look
for on the label and figure
out why they're putting
them in there.
I mean --
>> Mike: Well, we've had this
muffin out for at least 24 hours
and it's still kind of moist.
>> Dr. Group: And
that is still moist.
>> Mike: It's kind of chewy.
>> Dr. Group: That has
propylene glycol in it.
>> Mike: And check it out.
But actually, by the way,
this muffin, check this out.
Little Debbie brand is
using real blueberries.
This is a shocker.
I know you'll be shocked.
But I spent a lot of
time dissecting foods
under the microscope.
I know, it's a weird hobby.
>> Dr. Group: You
are the expert.
>> Mike: But that's what I do.
And little Debbie
Blueberry Muffins actually do
contain blueberries.
I know this because,
if you pull them apart,
you can see the seeds inside.
But like many other
products that actually --
they can enhance
the real blueberries
by adding more food coloring
to sort of multiply the effect,
you know, a little bit of
real and a lot of imitation,
and that's what we see in many
products across the industry.
And this thing is starting
to expand, by the way.
It's looking a little freaky.
>> Dr. Group: Mike, what
about other different
types of fake fruits?
I mean, have you done any
research on fake strawberries?
>> Mike: Yes.
>> Dr. Group: And fake other
things that are in food?
>> Mike: Well, now that you
mention it, check it out.
Kellogg's Frosted Mini Wheats
Strawberry Delight flavor
contains no strawberries.
So you know, there used to
be a law in America where,
if you didn't have the thing
that you put on the label,
you would have to use
the word, imitation.
So you'd have to say
imitation strawberry flavor
or imitation blueberry muffins
or, you know, imitation.
Right? Well, guess what?
The food industry lobbied
the FDA to take the word,
imitation, off the labels.
It was a couple decades ago.
I don't know the exact date.
But since then, they could
just lie to you on the labels
and name fruits that
aren't in the box.
How is that not deceptive?
>> Dr. Group: I mean,
I don't know.
That's just seriously deceptive.
You know, they just did a
study and it was published
in the Lancet, qualified British
Medical Journal, on the effects,
the negative effects,
of food dyes on children
that cause hyperactivity.
You know, people are wondering
why is my child hyperactive.
Okay. They eat this
stuff in the morning.
They send their children
to school, Mike.
And then what happens?
The nurse at school
calls the parents,
says they're hyperactive.
And then what happens?
The parent takes their
child to the doctor.
They get put on Adderall --
>> Mike: Yep.
>> Dr. Group: -- Ritalin,
prescription medications,
and this was the cause.
I've talked to --
>> Mike: This is --
>> Dr. Group: -- a lot
of moms that as soon
as they took their
kids off of the dyes --
>> Mike: Oh, yeah.
>> Dr. Group: -- and all
this stuff, MSG and some
of the other artificial things,
all the symptoms go away.
>> Mike: Well, check
this out, Ed.
I also brought beans,
guacamole dip.
It contains no avocados.
Now, how do you make
guacamole without avocados?
I'm not sure.
Beans have figured
it out though.
They use soybean oil and
green food colorings.
See, green.
If you just whip up a bunch
of oils, a little bit of onion
and garlic and some
green food coloring,
you too can use the word,
guacamole, on your product
and it will be sold
nationwide by Walmart
and other fine food retailers.
It's a whole business model, Ed.
What are we doing here?
We should be making baked foods.
People keep buying this stuff.
>> Dr. Group: You
know, they buy it,
because I don't really
know why they buy it.
Maybe, you know, that's
why we're doing this show,
so we can expose
it, and hopefully
that we can convince
the general public
to start reading the labels.
You know some -- I get
a lot of questions.
Well, what happens when
I eat all this stuff?
And the problem is, you
know, if you were to eat this
and immediately have to go to
the hospital, and that happened
for everybody, these would not
be allowed; but the problem lies
in you can take a drop of
poison every single day
and it won't effect you,
and it won't cause disease
for a long period of time.
So these are slow killers.
But when you combine
the slow killers of food
and the slow killers of
beverages and the slow killers
of the toxins in the air
and the toxins in the water
and the toxins people are
exposed to on a daily basis --
>> Mike: Yep.
>> Dr. Group: -- that's what
causes these health situations
and these health problems.
>> Mike: This is a crucial
point, and I hope all
of you watching understand
this, that, you see,
this may be the company
that first created
this blue food dye.
They may have tested this one
chemical in isolation and found
that this one chemical by
itself probably won't kill you,
but no one is taking these
chemicals in isolation.
>> Mike: They're eating
literally hundreds
of different chemicals.
We haven't even covered
the sodium benzoate,
the chemical additives,
preservatives, the GMO's,
the glyphosate, the heavy
metals that are in foods,
which we're going to talk
about in another episode here
on GAIAM TV, but they -- nobody
tests these in combination.
So the average person before
they leave their house
in the morning they have
already exposed themselves
to over 250 synthetic chemicals.
And there are somewhere
in the neighborhood
of 80,000 synthetic chemicals
that are legal to use in foods
and cosmetics and personal care
products today, many of which,
most of which, actually have
never been tested for safety
and have never been approved
by any safety standard,
not even by the FDA.
>> Dr. Group: That's right.
And a lot of this stuff
causes massive damage
in the intestinal lining too.
I mean, you know, all
these toxins that come
in ultimately effect
the intestines first,
and we wonder why we have
so many intestinal problems;
constipation, irritable
bowel, you know.
And over a period of time these
things actually cause damage
and inflammation to
the intestinal lining
and can even burn tiny holes
through the intestinal lining
causing leaky gut syndrome.
When that happens --
>> Mike: Oh, boy.
>> Dr. Group: --
undigested proteins --
>> Mike: Yep.
>> Dr. Group: -- undigested
foods, toxins, chemicals,
leak into the bloodstream and
cause a massive immune response.
And people wonder why
they're tired all the time.
I mean, Mike, look at
this for breakfast.
Okay. What happens when the kids
eat a glass of milk with this,
have, you know, store-bought
orange juice
for breakfast in the morning?
You know, they're putting all
these liquids on top of this.
If you were to take all the
chemicals on these labels
and mix them up into a
beaker or into a pot and give
that to somebody, how many
people do you think would
drink that?
>> Mike: Oh yeah.
I know, it's crazy.
But look, food is the problem to
the epidemic of chronic disease
that we're seeing all across
the nation and everywhere
around the world that starts
to eat these kinds of foods.
But food is also the solution,
because real food gives
you real nutrition
that helps your body heal.
Right. So if you get
real blueberries --
and we have some of those
here -- that we're --
I can kind of show you.
They're kind of small.
But real blueberries have
real nutrition, real medicine.
This is what you're
supposed to be eating.
Now you know why
we're wearing gloves,
so we can actually
show you these things.
But fake food is anti-food.
Fake food actually pulls the
nutrition out of your body
for you to detox that
out of your system.
In other words, the fake
ingredients will actually pull
minerals out.
You will expend antioxidants
in fighting the free radicals
that those chemicals
generate in your body.
So they are anti-foods.
They actually give you
a net loss of nutrition,
where your mind is thinking oh,
I'm buying these
blueberry muffins.
I'm getting a net
gain of blueberries.
It's a trick folks.
It's stage magic.
It's deception.
This is what's diseasing
America.
This is what's killing us all,
through cancer and diabetes
and heart disease and
Alzheimer's and kidney stones.
But we've got to change
this, Ed, if we're going
to change the future of
our nation and our world.
It's that simple.
>> Dr. Group: Absolutely.
And change happens now and
it happens with our children.
And it's all about as easy
as understanding what's
in your foods and
watching out for symptoms.
I mean, listen to your body.
Your body will always
tell you everything.
I mean, just some of the
symptoms that you have
from eating this type of food
are headaches, dizziness,
hyperactivity, bloating, gas,
headaches, severe headaches.
>> Mike: Skin disorders.
Rashes.
>> Dr. Group: Skin disorders.
>> Mike: Yep.
Eczema.
>> Dr. Group: You know,
the thing is your intestines
are made of epithelial tissue
and your skin is made
of epithelial tissue.
Your intestines are basically
your skin turned inside out.
And so whatever touches
your intestines always comes
out through your skin.
That's your body's
way of telling you
that something is wrong.
And if you have toxins
in your intestines,
you might have skin breakouts.
You might have skin rashes.
You might have exacerbations
of psoriasis,
eczema and everything else
that you're dealing with as far
as your skin is concerned, so.
>> Mike: This is crucial because
the model of Western medicine
and Western diets that
we're dealing with today,
the model is eat toxic foods
that give you symptoms
of disease.
Go to the doctor.
Get a diagnosis for the symptom
and then take prescription
medications
to cover up that symptom.
Oh, you got a skin rash.
There's a drug.
You know, there's cortisol.
There's antihistamines
for other symptoms.
There's arthritis drugs
to cover up the joint pain
that can be caused by
undigested uric acid crystals,
and things like that.
It's an insane system folks.
It's an insane system.
I know you agree, Ed.
>> Dr. Group: Well, we live in
a system, a healthcare system,
that's getting worse and worse,
and doctors are addressing
the symptoms instead
of the root cause.
I mean, --
>> Mike: Exactly.
>> Dr. Group: --
we've seen and worked
with thousands of patients.
And once you switch them and
get rid of all the chemicals
in their life, those are
what's causing all this.
I mean, those are the things
that are causing heart disease,
diabetes and everything else.
So I mean, what are
some of the solutions,
some easy solutions --
>> Mike: Yeah.
>> Dr. Group: -- that you see
that you recommend people do?
>> Mike: Let's get to
some solutions but, first,
I've got to ask you, would you
eat this for a hundred bucks?
>> Dr. Group: I would
not eat it.
But if I ate it for $100,
I'd probably, you know,
I'd probably eat something
to neutralize after that.
But actually it's not --
you couldn't pay me $100 --
>> Mike: I know.
>> Dr. Group: -- to
eat that, seriously.
>> Mike: Another reason we're
both wearing gloves, honestly,
is because we don't want to
touch this stuff, which is --
some of it will absorb
through your skin.
I don't want these dyes
going through my skin.
>> Dr. Group: I know.
I mean, when you
investigate this stuff
and you actually start learning,
I mean, take one thing --
and this is a challenge
to everybody.
Take one thing off of any
label you have in your cabinet
in your kitchen and do the
research online and put
that ingredient in
and put carcinogen,
which means cancer-causing,
or put toxic or dangers
of this ingredient and see --
>> Mike: Yeah.
>> Dr. Group: -- what comes up.
I mean --
>> Mike: Yeah.
>> Dr. Group: -- it's --
you're going to find mostly
the same ingredients on a lot
of different foods, but.
>> Mike: It's incredible.
But like you said, let's
get to some solution.
So solution Number One.
This is the easiest one.
Let me show you.
It's called reading the label.
You simply read the label.
I know some of the text
font size is microscopic.
Get a magnifying glass if you
have to, but read the label.
Number One.
If you come across a lot of
chemicals and food colors,
like red number forty, blue
number one, blue number two,
green, yellow, and so on,
avoid the food completely.
Right. If you see chemicals,
you don't understand
what those chemicals are,
you probably shouldn't eat that.
>> Dr. Group: Absolutely.
And solution Number
Two is avoid anything
that contains corn or soy.
I mean, the list goes on,
unless it's certified organic.
>> Mike: [inaudible] organic.
Yeah.
>> Dr. Group: Because soy and
corn are genetically modified,
which tune into GAIAM for our
show on GMO's, which is going
to be an awesome show.
>> Mike: Oh, yeah.
>> Dr. Group: So those
are a couple things.
And then I think solution three
we both agree on, is just switch
to an organic diet,
I mean, because,
if you buy certified
organic, you're going
to be getting good food.
>> Mike: Well, I think also
part of the solution is to look
for foods that you
physically, visually recognize.
If you're buying blueberries to
get the benefit of blueberries
or strawberries or
what have you,
make sure you can actually
see the blueberries,
like I'm holding here.
Make sure you can
see the strawberries.
Why not -- if you want to
make a blueberry muffin,
why not get your own
gluten-free organic muffin mix,
get some freeze dried
blueberries,
put them in the mix
and make your own?
>> Dr. Group: But Mike, organic
food is too expensive for me.
>> Mike: Oh, man.
>> Dr. Group: What do
you say about that?
>> Mike: Well, you know what's
really expensive folks is being
sick for the rest of your
life, and that's what happens
when you eat fake foods.
If you do the numbers, Ed,
and I know we've talked
about this before, if you
look at the economics of it,
investing in natural
foods is cheap insurance.
It's the best value
for your dollar
because you avoid the hospitals,
you avoid the medications,
you spend your years of
happiness, time with family,
quality living, all
of those things.
It's the best investment
you could make.
And I also got to say, Ed,
it's the best investment
we could make as a nation.
You know, there's all this talk
about free health
insurance, free health care.
We should -- you know, all your
disease cost should be covered.
Why aren't we talking about
getting people healthy
with real food instead of
who pays for their disease?
>> Dr. Group: Exactly.
I mean, and what we didn't
even talk about is the impact
on the environment
that this food has.
I mean --
>> Mike: Oh, yeah.
>> Dr. Group: -- when you
talk about the production
of these synthetic
chemicals on the environment,
all this stuff goes out
through your fecal matter.
It goes out through your urine.
It goes into the water
system, I mean, you know.
>> Mike: Well, you're assuming
that the people is actually
do have bowel movements,
and I'm not so sure about that.
>> Dr. Group: And the medical
profession says it's safe
if you have one bowel
movement per week.
One to two bowel movements --
>> Mike: No.
>> Dr. Group: -- per week
is considered normal.
I know. It's crazy.
>> Mike: Okay.
Sure.
>> Dr. Group: Look
at the animal world.
They -- how many bowel
movements those guys have --
>> Mike: All right.
>> Dr. Group: -- all the time.
>> Mike: Let's save that for --
>> Dr. Group: So.
>> Mike: -- a different show
because you're starting
to gross me out.
But you're right.
I mean, this stuff, eventually,
it's going to pass through you.
Where does it go?
It goes down the drain.
It goes into the
sewage processing plant,
gets turned into what?
Human bio-solids.
Which is used where?
As fertilizer on more
crops to grow more foods
that are stripped of their
vitamins and minerals
to make process refined
enriched wheat flour
with fake blueberries
that you then eat again.
You get it?
You're eating your own
stuff, recycled food,
with chemicals added
over and over again.
It's worse than being
an astronaut
on the space shuttle
drinking your own pee.
>> Dr. Group: [inaudible]
actually pee is more
and it probably even
more healthy for you.
>> Mike: It's filtered,
you know.
I would rather drink astronaut
pee than eat this stuff.
I'm serious.
>> Dr. Group: I hear you.
I mean, it's -- you
know, if you really want
to address the health care,
it needs to start at home.
It needs to start on the shelf.
There needs to be restrictions.
I mean, you know, what do
you think about labeling?
I mean, just think if you had --
like in the UK, it must
be labeled; warning.
This food contains
artificial dyes --
>> Mike: Yeah.
>> Dr. Group: -- which are
known to be a carcinogen.
But we don't have any of
that in the United States.
We don't have anybody.
Do you --
>> Mike: I know.
>> Dr. Group: -- think
someone would buy this
if there was a big
warning signal on here
that said this food
may cause cancer?
>> Mike: Well, look,
they require warnings
on cigarette packs,
which I agree with.
>> Mike: They require
warnings on pharmaceuticals,
you know, black box warnings.
This drug might kill you.
Take it anyway.
People do and they die.
I mean, but at least
the warning is there.
They have a choice.
But there's no warnings
on the food.
You're absolutely right, Ed.
There should be warnings;
contains artificial
petrochemicals
that are carcinogenic.
In fact, isn't there
a law in this country
that if something
causes cancer you have
to put a cancer warning
on the box?
Where are the cancer
warnings on all these fake --
I mean, these are
real right here,
so we can't blame them, but.
>> Dr. Group: Well,
semi-real, I would say.
>> Mike: Yeah, semi-real.
But you know, all these fake
products and the fake serials
that we showed you,
where are the warnings
about the artificial colors?
>> Dr. Group: And why aren't
doctors trained in this?
I mean --
>> Mike: Yeah.
>> Dr. Group: -- weird.
You rely on your doctor.
When you go into
the doctor's office
to tell you why you're sick,
doctors should be taught
this stuff in school, Mike.
I'll tell you --
>> Mike: Yeah.
I know.
>> Dr. Group: It's
[multiple speakers].
>> Mike: Well, the average
doctor spends only about what,
an hour, classroom hour
learning about nutrition?
It's crazy.
>> Dr. Group: Yes.
>> Mike: But anyway, we want to
thank you all for watching this.
We hope you learned a lot.
And we want to encourage you
to watch more episodes here
of Secrets to Health
on GAIAM.TV.
Ed and I are filming
eleven additional episodes,
more than just this one,
eleven more to watch.
If you're a member of GAIAM.TV,
you can watch all those
episodes for free.
You can also share the
word about this show
at secretstohealth.tv.
Again, secretstohealth.tv
and become a GAIAM.TV member
to see all the episodes.
>> Dr. Group: And that's
where you want to go.
And the most important
thing folks is just go
through your kitchen, go
through your refrigerator.
I mean, make a change
in your life.
I mean, you can do that.
It's only going to benefit
the health of your body.
It's only going to
reduce the trips
to the doctor over
the long haul.
Become educated about
your foods.
Thanks, Mike.
>> Mike: So I want to thank
everybody for watching.
I hope you found
this entertaining
and learned a few
things as well.
Remember there are
eleven additional episodes
of this show, Secrets to Health
with Mike and Ed on GAIAM TV.
So if you're not a
member of GAIAM TV,
definitely become a member.
You can get access to thousands
of other videos including
more episodes of this show.
You'll love it.
It's well worth it.
And also check out
secretstohealth.tv,
which is the website
dedicated to this show.
>> Dr. Group: And not only
that, Mike, but everybody,
please go in your kitchen,
look at the ingredients
on your products,
throw them all away.
Let's all take a stand.
Pass this information on.
Send this information
to all of your friends.
Let them watch these shows
as well, because our goal is
to create a healthier nation and
ultimately a healthier world.
Until next time.
>> Mike: Well said.
Thank you, Ed.
This is Mike Adams
with Natural News.
>> Dr. Group: And Dr. Ed Group
with Global Healing Center.
[ Music ]